# chapter 1 of DOET
Today I read Chapter 1 of The Design of Everyday Things by Don Norman. This was actually a refresher for me because this is such a widely recommended book in the design world. The chapter focuses on how so many of our everyday frustrations come not from us being careless or clumsy, but from bad design. The author writes, “If I were placed in the cockpit of a modern jet airliner, my inability to perform gracefully and smoothly would neither surprise nor bother me. But I shouldn't have trouble with doors and switches, water faucets and stoves” (8). This highlights the importance of human centered design and how bad design is actually not our fault. 

I am always fascinated by signifiers and affordances. Norman describes affordances as possible actions while signifiers tell you where the action should happen. The classic example being a door where one side has a flat panel and the other has a handle. While this is a great example of signifiers and affordances this does not mean that it is technically good design. One of the other highlights of the chapter was Norman's explanation about how user error is the fault of the designer and not the user. “the designer must assume that all possible errors will occur and design so as to minimize the chance of the error in the first place” (36). As a designer myself, I always gravitated towards this concept because it is a reminder that the responsibility to create good design is on me. 

After reading this book, or in this case the first chapter, my interaction with everyday objects has changed. To this day I still think about the door example everytime I see someone pull on a push door or vice versa. A more modern example, as a student I spend a lot of time on the internet and have found that there are far more bad websites than there are good ones. The bad ones have almost no consideration of signifiers and affordances and make me say out loud, “this is bad UX”. it is amazing how simple changes can easily help improve the design of everyday things. 
